Hello.
Welcome back.
So this video is on a topic that can be one of the most confusing topics in all of O.P. and also has
an intimidating name polymorphism but it's really not as bad as it sounds.
The academic definition can be a bit difficult but we're just going to focus on practical uses practical
applications of polymorphism.
So what's it mean.
Well if we dissect the name polymorphism poly meaning many Morfe meaning shapes or forms it just comes
down to the idea that an object can take on many forms.
So I said we're going to focus on how to use it rather than freaking out about the definition.
So here are the two most important practical applications of polymorphism.
The first is a single method working in a similar way for different classes.
So it might look like this speak method.
So it's defined on multiple different classes and each of these objects has its own Speak method that
does a different thing.
So it's the same method name but it's behaving in different ways depending on where it's defined.
And we've already seen examples of this like when we redefined the Dondre method.
Wrapper can never say the representation method earlier in andrée turned to programming to define how
a card or a deck should be printed out or just in the last video with MRO.
We had that one method defined I think it was called do something in four different places and then
the second type of polymorphism is where the same operation with the same method works for different
kinds of objects.
So it's able to handle more than one type of object.
So something like this.
Len the built in function is able to work with a list tuple a string and it's able to give us a link
and work consistently with multiple types of things.
Right.
It's not just one class.
Always different types although technically there's a distinction between these built in types and our
own classes but for this example it doesn't matter.
So let's begin by looking at the first example.
Polymorphism and inheritance we have a method that works in the same way for different classes.
And I should point out it's just a class method here.
This is not to say class method a single word you know decorator for compared to an instance method.
I just mean a method in a class which maybe at this side is a bit confusing now anyway.
A common implementation of this is to have a method in a base or parent class that is overridden by
a subclass.
So we've already seen this.
We just haven't been using that term overwriting.
But here's an example.
So there's an Animal class that has a speak method.
There is a dog class and cat class both inherit from animal but they have their own Speak method.
And if you look at with the Animal Speak method says or does it's just an error.
It raises an error that says not implemented error.
So this is actually a built in error that we can use that we get that use for exactly this type of situation
when we want to define a class and basically enforce that whatever the name of the method is speak should
be implemented on anything that inherits from animal.
So if we make an instance of dog we call speak it's going to return Wolf.
You mean like an instance of cat turn speak or we call speak it should return meow but if we made a
new class and we didn't return speak it inherited from animal we would get an error.
So I have this example here.
So if I did something like Class A fish inherits from animal I don't know why I have an extra see if
there and if I just put a pass in here otherwise I'll get an error if I try and do.
Well first of all do dog d dot speak.
They print that
OK and then let's do f equals a new fish.
And then they call f does speak.
So there is no speak defined on fish but there is one to find an animal.
So let's run this
we get Wolf which is first and then we get this not implemented their subclass needs to implement this
method.
So this is an example of polymorphism where this one method speak is implemented both on a child and
a parent class.
It just happens that the way it's set up period.
This is a common pattern.
Like I said where suppose we're working with a team or we're working you're building a class that other
people are going to then write their own sub or child classes with.
It's not uncommon that you would do something like this.
Basically as a direction to tell people hate you need to define your own version of this method.
In any child class but don't get too caught up in that.
The point is that we're using the same method name to do different things depending on which class called
Say method name.
All three places just depends on who's calling in.
All right so that's one example of polymorphism.
The second type of polymorphism is having the same operation work with different types of objects.
So we've been working with this since the very first I don't know first section of this course adding
two numbers together.
We have an int and int and we get 10.
If we had a string in a string and there's a plus sign it works totally different.
Right we get 80 to concatenation.
If I had an int and a float we also get a different result than just two events.
So one method behaves differently depending on the objects that is behaving on or with and the way it
does this by the way is with special methods Dondre methods we've actually seen some of them in practice
and in the next video I'm going to dive into.
It's going to be pretty fun to think of I'm not selling it too much but it should be fun.
And we'll define our own class and put a bunch of these special magic methods in that give instructions
to Python for how to deal with our objects so that we can define things like the length or the string
representation.
But also we can define how an object or class should be multiplied or added and we'll create our own
plus sign.
But for a human class for example.
So that's in the next video.
For now let's just wrap up polymorphism.
So we saw that it really just means a single object taking on multiple forms.
And what that really means are two different definitions are to use cases having one method work multiple
ways depending on the class that it's written in.
And then having the same method work in different ways depending on that kind of objects that it's working
with.
Get.
Next up we are going to implement our own version of this second example should be fun.